# Alias types

**Alias types** are used in chalk to handle a number of distinct Rust
concepts:

* Explicit type aliases like `type Foo = u32` (in theory)
* Associated types like `impl Iterator for Foo { type Item = Bar }`
* Opaque types generated by impl Traits, like `type Foo = impl Iterator<Item = u32>`
  or `fn foo() -> impl Iterator<Item = u32>`.

What all these aliases have in common is that they let the user write the name
of one type that turns out to be *equivalent* to another, although the
equivalent type is not always known:

* In an explicit type alias like `type Foo = u32`, the user writes `Foo`
  but it is always known to be equivalent to `u32`
* In an associated type, the user might write `<vec::IntoIter<u32> as
  Iterator>::Item`, but the compiler knows that can be *normalized* (see below)
  to `u32`. In generic functions, though, you might have a type like `T::Item`
  where we *can't* normalize, because we don't know what `T` is. Even in that
  case, though, we still know that `T::Item: Sized`, because that bound is
  [declared in the `Iterator` trait][Iterator::Item] (by default, as it
  happens). We describe how both cases are handled in more detail in the [section on associated types](../../clauses/type_equality.html).
* In an opaque type like `type Foo = impl Iterator<Item = u32>`, the user might
  write `Foo` (which indirectly references the opaque type) but they never get
  to rely on the precise underlying type. However, when generating code, the
  *compiler* does need to be able to normalize `Foo` to the precise underlying
  type, so normalization still does occur. We describe this in more detail in the [opaque types](../../clauses/opaque_types.html) section.

[Iterator::Item]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/iter/trait.Iterator.html#associatedtype.Item

## How aliases work

All aliases have a few parts:

* The *Alias* type, which represents what the user wrote directly, but where there is
  some underlying type.
* *Normalization* rules, which indicate when the alias type can be converted
  into its underlying type.
* A corresponding *Placeholder* type, which is used in cases where the alias **cannot** be
  converted into its underlying type.

## Equating an alias

Alias types are integrated specially into unification. Whenever there is an
attempt to unify an *Alias* type `A` with some other type `T`, we generate an
`AliasEq` that must be solved:

```notrust
AliasEq(A = T)
```

The rules for how to solve an `AliasEq` goal will be generated by lowering the alias
definition, and depend a bit on the kind of alias. We describe that lowering in the
[clauses](../../clauses.md) section.

## Alias placeholders

For each kind of alias (except for explicit type aliases), there is also a
corresponding *placeholder* variant in the [`TyKind`] enum. In those cases
where we cannot normalize the alias to something specific, it can be equated to
the placeholder type (see e.g. [`AssociatedType`], which is the placeholder
variant for associated type projections). Note that placeholders are
*application types* -- unlike an alias, a placeholder is only known to be equal
with itself, just like an application type.

[`TyKind`]: https://rust-lang.github.io/chalk/chalk_ir/enum.TyKind.html
[`AssociatedType`]: https://rust-lang.github.io/chalk/chalk_ir/enum.TyKind.html#variant.AssociatedType

